Duperemove

Duperemove is a simple tool for finding duplicated extents and
submitting them for deduplication. When given a list of files it will
hash their contents on a block by block basis and compare those hashes
to each other, finding and categorizing extents that match each
other. When given the -d option, duperemove will submit those
extents for deduplication using the btrfs-extent-same ioctl.

Duperemove has two major modes of operation one of which is a subset
of the other.


Readonly / Non-deduplicating Mode

When run without -d (the default) duperemove will print out one or
more tables of matching extents it has determined would be ideal
candidates for deduplication. As a result, readonly mode is useful for
seeing what duperemove might do when run with '-d'. The output could
also be used by some other software to submit the extents for
deduplication at a later time.

It is important to note that this mode will not print out *all*
instances of matching extents, just those it would consider for
deduplication.

Generally, duperemove does not concern itself with the underlying
representation of the extents it processes. Some of them could be
compressed, undergoing I/O, or even have already been deduplicated. In
dedupe mode, the kernel handles those details and therefore we try not
to replicate that work.


Deduping Mode

This functions similarly to readonly mode with the exception that the
duplicated extents found in our "read, hash, and compare" step will
actually be submitted for deduplication. An estimate of the total data
deduplicated will be printed after the operation is complete. This
estimate is calculated by comparing the total amount of shared bytes
in each file before and after the dedupe.


See the duperemove man page for further details about running duperemove.


REQUIREMENTS

Kernel: Duperemove needs a kernel version equal to or greater than 2.6.33.

Libraries: Duperemove uses libgcrypt for hashing.


FAQ

* Is there an upper limit to the amount of data duperemove can process?

Right now duperemove has been tested on small numbers of VMS or iso
files (5-10). I don't believe there should be a major problem scaling
that up to 50 or so.


* Why does it not print out all duplicate extents?

Internally duperemove is classifying extents based on various criteria
like length, number of identical extents, etc. The printout we give is
based on the results of that classification.


* How can I find out my space savings after a dedupe?

Duperemove will print out an estimate of the saved space after a
dedupe operation for you. You can also do a df before the dedupe
operation, then a df about 60 seconds after the operation. It is
common for btrfs space reporting to be 'behind' while delayed updates
get processed, so an immediate df after deduping might not show any
savings.


* Why is the total deduped data report an estimate?

At the moment duperemove can detect that some underlying extents are
shared with other files, but it can not resolve which files those
extents are shared with.

Imagine duperemove is examing a series of files and it notes a shared
data region in one of them. That data could be shared with a file
outside of the series. Since duperemove can't resolve that information
it will account the shared data against our dedupe operation while in
reality, the kernel might deduplicate it further for us.


USAGE EXAMPLES

TODO
